overlord: add a high-level README about state and changes (#12317)
snapcore/snapd: overlord/README.md

In broad terms, state managers have assigned responsibilities for different subsystems, and these are in mostly orthogonal areas. They then participate in the management and bookkeeping of the state via various mechanisms.

During startup, and after construction, an optional `StartUp` method is invoked on each state manager. This is followed by the activation of an *ensure loop* which calls a state manager’s corresponding Ensure method at least once every 5 minutes.

The *ensure loop* is intended to initiate any automatic state management and corresponding transitions, state repair, and any other consistency-maintaining operations.

`state.Change`
---------------
A `state.Change` is a graph of `state.Task` structs and their inter-dependencies as edges. The purpose of both a `state.Change` and `state.Task` is identified by their kind (which should be an explanatory string value).

> Time-consuming and user-initiated operations, usually initiated from the API provided by the `daemon` package, should be realized using the `state.Change` functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time-consuming and user-initiated operations, usually initiated from the API provided by the `daemon` package, should be realised using the `state.Change` functionality.
```
I should have seen this earlier, sorry!

Reviewer 2: Nitpick^2: done/performed/run would sound more natural since we're talking about operations

Author: I switched to performed

`state.Change` and `state.Task`s instances use the working state to remain persistent, and they can carry input parameters, and their own state, accessible with `Get` and `Set` methods.

>  The goals of the `state.Change` mechanisms is that operations should survive restarts and reboots and that on error snapd should try to bring back the external state to a previous good state if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goals of the `state.Change` mechanisms are such that operations should survive restarts and reboots and that, on error, snapd should try to bring back the external state to a previous good state if possible.
```

`state.TaskRunner`
-------------------
The `state.TaskRunner` is responsible for `state.Change` and `state.Task` execution, and their state management. The do and undo logic of `state.Task`s is defined by `Task` kind using `TaskRunner.AddHandler`.

 During execution, a `Task` goes through a series of statuses. These are represented by state.Status and will finish in a ready status of either `DoneStatus, UndoneStatus, ErrorStatus` or `HoldStatus`.

>  If errors are encountered, the `TaskRunner `will normally try to recursively execute the undo logic of any previously depended-upon `Task`s with the exception of the `Task` that generated the error. It is instead expected that any desired undo should be part of its error paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If errors are encountered, the `TaskRunner` will normally try to recursively execute the undo logic of any previously depended upon `Task`s with the exception of the `Task` that generated the error. It is instead expected that any desired undo logic should be part of its error paths.
```

Different `Change`s and independent `Task`s are normally executed concurrently.

`Task`s and `State` locking and consistency
--------------------------------------------

> Currently, the `Task`  do and undo handlers are started without holding the State lock, but to simplify consistency, it's easier if a `Task` executes while holding the State lock.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the `Task` do and undo handlers are started without holding the State lock, but to simplify consistency, it's easier if a `Task` executes while holding the `State` lock.
```

> Strictly, `State` lock must only be released when performing slow operations, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Strictly, the `State` lock must only be released when performing slow operations, such as:
```

> -   copying, compressing or uncompressing of large amounts of on-disk data

Reviewer 2: nitpick: sounds slightly better due to the second "of" nearby
```suggestion
-   copying, compressing or uncompressing large amounts of on-disk data
```

-   network operations

So in practice, most handler code should start with:

```
st.Lock()
defer st.Unlock()
```

> where `st` is the runtime `state.State` instance, accessible via `Task.State() or the handler manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `st` is the runtime `state.State` instance, accessible via `Task.State()` or the handler manager.
```

The deferred `Unlock` will implicitly commit any working state mutations at the end of the handler.

> Due to potential restarts, the do or undo handler logic in a Task may be re-executed if it hasn't already completed. This necessitates the following considerations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to potential restarts, the do or undo handler logic in a `Task` may be re-executed if it hasn't already completed. This necessitates the following considerations:
```

-   on-disk/external state manipulation should be idempotent or equivalent

> -   working state manipulation should either be idempotent or designed to combine working state mutations with setting the next status of the task. This approach currently requires using `Task.SetStatus` before returning form the handler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   working state manipulation should either be idempotent or designed to combine working state mutations with setting the next status of the task. This approach currently requires using `Task.SetStatus()` before returning from the handler
```

Author: go doc style prefer leaving out the () when referring to methods even if ambiguous though here it isn't anyway as SetStatus is clearly a function name. I tend to use () only if a list actual parameters or arguments. Fixed the from though

If slow operations need to be performed, the required `Unlock/Lock` should happen before any working state manipulation.

> If the `State` lock is released during a handler, the code needs to consider that other code could have manipulated some relevant working state.There may be also cases where it’s neither possible nor desirable to hold the `State` lock for the entirety of a state manipulation, such as when a manipulation spans multiple subsystems, and so spans multiple tasks. For all such cases, and to simplify reasoning, snapd offers other coordination mechanisms with differing granularity to the `State` lock.

Reviewer 2: Sounds slightly better like this to me but I'm nitpicking

```suggestion
If the `State` lock is released in a handler, the code needs to consider that other code may have manipulated some relevant working state. There may be also cases where it’s neither possible nor desirable to hold the `State` lock for the entirety of a state manipulation, such as when a manipulation spans multiple subsystems, and so spans multiple tasks. For all such cases, and to simplify reasoning, snapd offers other coordination mechanisms with differing granularity to the `State` lock.
```

Author: I added a released and reacquired, the "could" was formulated thinking about the point of reacquired the lock

See also the comment in `overlord/snapstate/handlers.go` about state locking.

Conflicts and `Task` precondition blocking
-------------------------------------------

> At a higher level, it may be appropriate and simpler to manage whether at most one `Change`/sequence of `Task`s is operating on a given snap at a time. As this could stop the system connecting an interface on a snap that’s being removed, for example, or disable service manipulation while its snap is being installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At a higher level, it may be appropriate and simpler to manage whether at most one `Change`/sequence of `Task`s is operating on a given snap at a time. As this could, for example, stop the system connecting an interface on a snap that’s being removed, or disable service manipulation while its snap is being installed.
```
